Title: Physics 2053
Date: 2024-02-26 11:20
Category: Check
Status: hidden

<h1>Physics 2053: Fluids and Thermodynamics</h1>

<strong>Fall 2017</strong>

<h2>Course information </h2>

<p><strong>Text:</strong> Serway and Jewett, <i>Principles of Physics</i>, Brooks/Cole-Thomson (5th edition, 2013, ISBN 9781305586871). There are electronic and paper versions of these texts available. </p>

<p> <i>Note: It is possible to use other introductory physics textbooks, but be forewarned that you may miss some material. </i></p>

<p><strong>Classes:</strong> T,Th 12:00-12:50, F 13:00-13:50 in C2045 </p>

<p><strong>Prerequisites:</strong> Math 1001, Physics 1051 (or Physics 1021 with minimum average 70%) </p>

<p><strong>Topics:</strong>  This course is ideal for curious minds! Why does a metal boat float? How do airplanes fly? What is turbulence? What exactly is "heat" anyway? How is temperature defined? What does the motion of atoms and molecules have to do with temperature? How are refrigerators and diesel engines related? What is "entropy", and what is The Heat Death of the Universe? <br><br>

PHYS 2053 (Fluids and Thermodynamics) introduces basic concepts in fluid statics and dynamics, as well as fundamental concepts in thermal physics: kinetic theory, the laws of thermodynamics, thermodynamic processes, entropy, and heat engines and refrigerators.</p>

<h2>Instructor information</h2>

<p><strong>Instructor: </strong> Kris Poduska</p>

<p><strong>E-mail:</strong> kris_at_mun.ca </p>

<h2>Evaluation scheme</h2>

To be announced in class

<h2> Additional course material </h2>

Available through Desire2Learn (restricted access) <br>

<br>
<hr>
<div class = "small italics">
Return to <a href="/pages/teaching.html">Teaching</a>
</div>
<hr>








