Title: Physics 4000
Date: 2024-02-26 11:20
Category: Check
Status: hidden

<h1>Physics 4000: Solid State Physics</h1>



<strong>Fall 2016</strong>

<h2>Course information </h2>


<li><strong>Text:</strong> Harald Ibach and Hans Luth, <i>Solid-state physics: an introduction to principles of materials science</i>, Springer (4th edition [electronic resource], 2009) ISBN 3540938044 or 9783540938040. <br> <br>This textbook is available <strong>free of charge</strong> through Memorial's library at <br><a href="http://qe2a-proxy.mun.ca/login?url=http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-93804-0">http://qe2a-proxy.mun.ca/login?url=http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-93804-0</a></li>

<!--<li><strong>Text:</strong> Michael P. Marder, <i>Condensed Matter Physics</i>, Wiley (2nd edition, 2011) ISBN 978-0-470-61798-4. <br> <br>This textbook is available in hardcover or in electronic format (access for 1 year)</li>-->

<!--<p><strong>Optional text:</strong> Ashcroft and Mermin, <i>Solid State Physics</i>, Wiley (1976) ISBN 0-03-083993-9</p>-->

<li><strong>Classes: NEW!! T,Th 14:00-15:15 in C2026, with the first class meeting on Tuesday, 13 Sept 2016. </strong></li>



<li><strong>Prerequisites:</strong> Physics 3400 (Thermodynamics) and 3750 (Quantum Mechanics I)</li>

<li><strong>Topics:</strong>  What makes a good metal or an insulator? Why do some solids transport heat better than others? This course introduces the physics behind of the most useful features of solid materials. Its focus is on the essential link between the structure of material (its atomic composition and the symmetry of their arrangement) and its electron-based and vibration-based physical properties. Simple models do surprisingly well to explain and predict the electrical and thermal properties of metals, but semiconductors and insulators require more involved theories. This is an excellent course for students who are interested in science research, either experimental or theoretical. <br><br>

4000 Introduction to Solid State Physics focuses on the relation between structure and physical properties in crystalline materials. An introduction to crystal structure addresses symmetry and reciprocal space. Phonons and lattice vibrations are linked with thermal properties of solids. Electrons in solids, including energy bands and semiconductors, lead to discussions of transport in solids.

</li>

<h2>Instructor information</h2>

<li><strong>Instructor: </strong> Kris Poduska</li>

<li><strong>E-mail:</strong> kris_at_mun.ca </li>

<h2>Evaluation scheme</h2>

To be announced


<h2> Additional course material </h2>

Available through <a href="https://online.mun.ca/" title="D2L">Desire2Learn</a>  (restricted access) <br>

<br>
<hr>
<div class = "small italics">
Return to <a href="/pages/teaching.html">Teaching</a>
</div>
<hr>










