Title: Physics 490A/B
Date: 2024-02-26 11:20
Category: Check
Status: hidden

<h1>Physics 490A/B: Honours Physics Thesis</h1>



<strong>Fall 2018</strong>

<h2>Course information </h2>

Candidates for the Honours B. Sc. degree in physics are required to submit a written thesis based on their own research carried out under the supervision of a faculty member. The purpose of writing a thesis is to provide an opportunity to pursue a project in depth outside the usual constraints of course work.  The project gives a taste of independent research, including gaining familiarity with scientific literature, organizing and analyzing results, and communicating the results clearly to make the research accessible to others. 

<li><strong>Text:</strong> none

<li><strong>Classes:</strong> The first course meeting will be on Monday, September 10 at 2pm in C3000. Please read about course logistics, policies and guidelines on <a href="https://online.mun.ca/" title="Brightspace">Brightspace</a> before Monday's meeting.</li>

<li><strong>Prerequisites:</strong> Students are advised to select a supervisor and choose a possible thesis topic as soon as possible. Students who have difficulty finding a supervisor should consult with the 490A coordinator. </li>


<h2>Instructor information</h2>

<li><strong>Instructor: </strong> Kris Poduska</li>

<li><strong>E-mail:</strong> kris_at_mun.ca </li>

<h2>Evaluation scheme</h2>

To be announced  

<h2> Additional course material </h2>

Available through <a href="https://online.mun.ca/" title="Brightspace">Brightspace</a>  (restricted access) <br>

<br>
<hr>
<div class = "small italics">
Return to <a href="/pages/teaching.html">Teaching</a>
</div>
<hr>










